# Django 5.2 release notes - UNDER DEVELOPMENT

*Expected April 2025*

Welcome to Django 5.2!

These release notes cover the [new features](#whats-new-5-2), as well as
some [backwards incompatible changes](#backwards-incompatible-5-2) you
should be aware of when upgrading from Django 5.1 or earlier. We’ve
[begun the deprecation process for some features](#deprecated-features-5-2).

See the [How to upgrade Django to a newer version](../howto/upgrade-version.md) guide if you’re updating an existing
project.

Django 5.2 is designated as a [long-term support release](../internals/release-process.md#term-Long-term-support-release). It will receive security updates for at least
three years after its release. Support for the previous LTS, Django 4.2, will
end in April 2026.

## Python compatibility

Django 5.2 supports Python 3.10, 3.11, 3.12, and 3.13. We **highly recommend**
and only officially support the latest release of each series.

<a id="whats-new-5-2"></a>

## What’s new in Django 5.2

### Minor features

#### [`django.contrib.admin`](../ref/contrib/admin/index.md#module-django.contrib.admin)

* The `admin/base.html` template now has a new block
  [extrabody](../ref/contrib/admin/index.md#extrabody) for adding custom code before the closing
  `</body>` tag.

#### [`django.contrib.admindocs`](../ref/contrib/admin/admindocs.md#module-django.contrib.admindocs)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.auth`](../topics/auth/index.md#module-django.contrib.auth)

* The default iteration count for the PBKDF2 password hasher is increased from
  870,000 to 1,000,000.

#### [`django.contrib.contenttypes`](../ref/contrib/contenttypes.md#module-django.contrib.contenttypes)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.gis`](../ref/contrib/gis/index.md#module-django.contrib.gis)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.messages`](../ref/contrib/messages.md#module-django.contrib.messages)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.postgres`](../ref/contrib/postgres/index.md#module-django.contrib.postgres)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.redirects`](../ref/contrib/redirects.md#module-django.contrib.redirects)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.sessions`](../topics/http/sessions.md#module-django.contrib.sessions)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.sitemaps`](../ref/contrib/sitemaps.md#module-django.contrib.sitemaps)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.sites`](../ref/contrib/sites.md#module-django.contrib.sites)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.staticfiles`](../ref/contrib/staticfiles.md#module-django.contrib.staticfiles)

* …

#### [`django.contrib.syndication`](../ref/contrib/syndication.md#module-django.contrib.syndication)

* All [`SyndicationFeed`](../ref/utils.md#django.utils.feedgenerator.SyndicationFeed) classes now support
  a `stylesheets` attribute. If specified, an `<? xml-stylesheet ?>`
  processing instruction will be added to the top of the document for each
  stylesheet in the given list. See [Feed stylesheets](../ref/contrib/syndication.md#feed-stylesheets) for more details.

#### Asynchronous views

* …

#### Cache

* …

#### CSRF

* …

#### Database backends

* …

#### Decorators

* …

#### Email

* Tuple items of [`EmailMessage.attachments`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMessage) and
  [`EmailMultiAlternatives.attachments`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMultiAlternatives) are now named tuples, as opposed
  to regular tuples.
* [`EmailMultiAlternatives.alternatives`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMultiAlternatives.alternatives) is now a list of
  named tuples, as opposed to regular tuples.
* The new [`body_contains()`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMultiAlternatives.body_contains) method
  returns a boolean indicating whether a provided text is contained in the
  email `body` and in all attached MIME type `text/*` alternatives.

#### Error Reporting

* The attribute [`SafeExceptionReporterFilter.hidden_settings`](../howto/error-reporting.md#django.views.debug.SafeExceptionReporterFilter.hidden_settings) now
  treats values as sensitive if their name includes `AUTH`.

#### File Storage

* …

#### File Uploads

* …

#### Forms

* The new [`ColorInput`](../ref/forms/widgets.md#django.forms.ColorInput) form widget is for entering a color
  in `rrggbb` hexadecimal format and renders as `<input type="color" ...>`.
  Some browsers support a visual color picker interface for this input type.
* The new [`SearchInput`](../ref/forms/widgets.md#django.forms.SearchInput) form widget is for entering search
  queries and renders as `<input type="search" ...>`.
* The new [`TelInput`](../ref/forms/widgets.md#django.forms.TelInput) form widget is for entering telephone
  numbers and renders as `<input type="tel" ...>`.

#### Generic Views

* …

#### Internationalization

* …

#### Logging

* …

#### Management Commands

* A new warning is printed to the console when running [`runserver`](../ref/django-admin.md#django-admin-runserver) that
  `runserver` is unsuitable for production. This warning can be hidden by
  setting the [`HIDE_PRODUCTION_WARNING`](../ref/django-admin.md#envvar-HIDE_PRODUCTION_WARNING) environment variable to
  `"true"`.

#### Migrations

* …

#### Models

* The `SELECT` clause generated when using
  [`QuerySet.values()`](../ref/models/querysets.md#django.db.models.query.QuerySet.values) and
  [`values_list()`](../ref/models/querysets.md#django.db.models.query.QuerySet.values_list) now matches the
  specified order of the referenced expressions. Previously the order was based
  of a set of counterintuitive rules which made query combination through
  methods such as
  [`QuerySet.union()`](../ref/models/querysets.md#django.db.models.query.QuerySet.union) unpredictable.
* Added support for validation of model constraints which use a
  [`GeneratedField`](../ref/models/fields.md#django.db.models.GeneratedField).
* The new [`Expression.set_returning`](../ref/models/expressions.md#django.db.models.Expression.set_returning) attribute specifies that the
  expression contains a set-returning function, enforcing subquery evaluation.
  This is necessary for many Postgres set-returning functions.

#### Requests and Responses

* …

#### Security

* …

#### Serialization

* …

#### Signals

* …

#### Templates

* …

#### Tests

* Stack frames from Django’s custom assertions are now hidden. This makes test
  failures easier to read and enables [`test --pdb`](../ref/django-admin.md#cmdoption-test-pdb) to directly enter
  into the failing test method.

#### URLs

* …

#### Utilities

* [`SafeString`](../ref/utils.md#django.utils.safestring.SafeString) now returns
  [`NotImplemented`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/constants.html#NotImplemented) in `__add__` for non-string right-hand side
  values. This aligns with the [`str`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#str) addition behavior and allows
  `__radd__` to be used if available.
* [`format_html_join()`](../ref/utils.md#django.utils.html.format_html_join) now supports taking an iterable
  of mappings, passing their contents as keyword arguments to
  [`format_html()`](../ref/utils.md#django.utils.html.format_html).

#### Validators

* …

<a id="backwards-incompatible-5-2"></a>

## Backwards incompatible changes in 5.2

### Database backend API

This section describes changes that may be needed in third-party database
backends.

* …

### [`django.contrib.gis`](../ref/contrib/gis/index.md#module-django.contrib.gis)

* Support for PostGIS 3.0 is removed.

### Dropped support for PostgreSQL 13

Upstream support for PostgreSQL 13 ends in November 2025. Django 5.2 supports
PostgreSQL 14 and higher.

### Miscellaneous

* Adding [`EmailMultiAlternatives.alternatives`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMultiAlternatives.alternatives) is now only supported via
  the [`attach_alternative()`](../topics/email.md#django.core.mail.EmailMultiAlternatives.attach_alternative) method.

<a id="deprecated-features-5-2"></a>

## Features deprecated in 5.2

### Miscellaneous

* The `all` argument for the `django.contrib.staticfiles.finders.find()`
  function is deprecated in favor of the `find_all` argument.
